feat: migrate from rebase to refresh terminology (#8029)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/updating-rebasing.md

---
title: Refreshing branches
description: How Renovate refreshes branches
---

# Refreshing branches

> There are many situations in which Renovate must refresh a branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Renovate terminology, _refreshing_ a branch means Renovate will re-apply all dependency updates in the branch on top of the latest commit from the base branch (e.g. `main`/`master`).
There are many situations in which Renovate might refresh a branch.
```

It is up to you to either finish the job and merge the PR, or rename it and close it so that Renovate can take back over again.

## Refreshing conflicted PRs

If new commits to the base branch - such as merging another Renovate PR - result in an open Renovate PR having merge conflicts, then Renovate will refresh any conflicted PRs.
This applies both to commits to dependency files such as `package.json` as well as lock files such as `yarn.lock`.
You should not ever need to resolve such conflicts manually.
You can disable this functionality by configuring `"refreshWhen": "never"` (not recommended).

## Refreshing out-of-date branches

There are two cases where Renovate will refresh its branches off the base branch every time they are out of date:

1. If you manually configure `"refreshWhen": "behind-base-branch"`
1. If you have enabled "Require branches to be up to date before merging" on GitHub protected branches settings, and `refreshWhen` has default value `"auto"`

In that case Renovate PRs will be continuously refreshed off the repository's base branch whenever necessary, even if the PRs are not conflicted.

## Newer dependency versions

> If you have a existing PR to upgrade dependency "foo" to 1.1.0, and later 1.1.1 is released, then Renovate will regenerate the branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an existing PR but even newer versions exist of a dependency in the PR then Renovate will refresh the branch to apply the newer version.
```

This way:

- Each Renovate branch always has 1 and only 1 commit
- The newest version will be based off the latest base branch commit at the time

## Manual refresh

> You can request that Renovate refresh a PR by ticking the refresh checkbox on GitHub or Gitlab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can request that Renovate refresh a PR by ticking the refresh checkbox on GitHub or Gitlab.

You can instead request a PR refresh by renaming the PR title to begin with `refresh!`.
```

We need to think whether to support `rebase!` too.

Author: I'd like to just migrate everybody to the new term and make a clean break with the old term.
But this is more work to program, more error prone, and causes noise for existing users.

So, I think we have no other option but to support both terms.
We can however only mention the newer term in the docs, so that new users are "nudged" towards using the newer `refresh!` term in their PR titles.

> Or you can add a "refresh" label to the PR.

Reviewer: This is a problem because people may be used to using the `rebase` label. Maybe we need to support both?

Author: I'd like to just migrate everybody to the new label and make a clean break with the old term.
But this is more work to program, more error prone, and causes noise for existing users.

So, I think we have no other option but to support both labels.
We can however only mention the newer labels, so that new users are "nudged" towards using the newer labels.

---
title: Updating and Rebasing branches
description: How Renovate Updates and Rebases branches
---

# Updating and Rebasing branches

There are many situations in which Renovate must update/rebase a branch.

Here is a list of the most common cases where Renovate must update/rebase the branch:

- When a pull request has conflicts due to changes on the base branches
- When you have enabled "Require branches to be up to date before merging" on GitHub
- When you have manually told Renovate to rebase when behind the base branch with `"rebaseWhen": "behind-base-branch"`
- When a newer version of the dependency is released
- When you request a manual rebase from the Renovate bot

> Renovate uses its own version of "rebasing", which is _not the same_ as doing a `git rebase` with Git.
> Instead of doing a `git rebase`, Renovate manually recreates the PR commit based off of the latest commit in the base branch.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Scrap this section see https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/8029#issuecomment-745314007 for my reasoning.
